Extraction of marine sediments in the North Atlantic, including the Baltic and North Seas, has risen sharply, from a few hundred thousand m³ per year in the early 1970s to millions in the 1990s and tens of millions of m³ in recent years (5). The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) centralises information on the volumes extracted in the various countries of the North Atlantic arc and transmits this information to OSPAR (Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic). OSPAR brings together 15 governments and the European Union to protect the marine environment of the North-East Atlantic. The ICES Working Group on the "Effects of Marine Sediment Extraction on the Marine Ecosystem" (WGEXT) endeavours to report on the state of scientific knowledge through scientific reports. The aim of WGEXT is to provide a synthesis of data relating to marine sediment extraction, the mapping of marine resources and habitats, changes in the legal regime and research projects relevant to the assessment of environmental effects (1)(5). The extraction of marine aggregates exerts various pressures on the physical, chemical and biological state of the environment. A list of these pressures can be found on page 151 of the Methodological Guide for the preparation of Guidance Documents for the Sustainable Management of Marine Aggregates (2)(4). The main pressures of aggregate extraction on bentho-demersal and pelagic species are: direct extraction and disturbance of species. These pressures can potentially lead to a reduction in biomass and biodiversity in the area and alter the trophic chain (2). In France, the extraction of marine aggregates is governed by the Mining Code and the Environmental Code. According to the report on the blue economy in France, the latest forecasts indicate that France has a resource estimated at 170 billion cubic metres of marine aggregates (6); the volume extracted annually is estimated at around 4 million cubic metres (9)(6). According to UNICEM (Union nationale des industries de carrières et matériaux de construction), by 2019, marine aggregate production will account for 2% of national aggregate production (7)(8). The DGALN (Direction générale de l'Aménagement, du Logement et de la Nature), which is part of the Ministry of the Environment, is responsible for managing marine aggregates on behalf of the French government, and has worked to draw up several documents to establish a framework for the sustainable and balanced management of marine aggregate exploration and exploitation. It is within this framework that the Guide méthodologique pour l'élaboration des Documents d'Orientation pour une Gestion durable des Granulats Marins (DOGGM) and the Guide technique pour l'élaboration des études d'impact préalables à la recherche et l'exploitation des granulats marins (Technical guide for the preparation of impact studies prior to the exploration and exploitation of marine aggregates) were drafted. According to these documents, the French Research Institute for Exploitation of the Sea (Ifremer) is identified as the State's scientific body for examining mining permits and applications for prior exploration authorisation (APP). This mission, entrusted to the Institute by decree(s), and falling within its remit (article 4, paragraph 2 of decree no. 84-428 of 5 June 1984 as amended) requires it to provide ongoing expertise and advice, with government departments relying on Ifremer to fulfil their role as public decision-makers (2). Among the documents provided by Ifremer, the Inventaire des ressources en matériaux marins (10) from the Ifremer-Ministère de l'Industrie Convention n° 2004 -00258-00-07 serves as a reference for the inventory of marine geological resources. One of the topics in which Ifremer is involved in marine aggregates surveys and in providing advice to government departments is defining the initial state and analysing the impact on benthic populations and on fisheries and aquaculture resources and activities, which is necessary for an ecosystem-based approach. The assessment of impacts on fishing communities is described in the reference protocol for monitoring fishery resources (REF) (3). This protocol mentions various statistical analysis methods considered appropriate for meeting the objectives of the initial state of the environment, the baseline state prior to construction work and regulatory environmental monitoring. The analyses carried out must make it possible to characterise the impact of the human activity in question on the biological compartment concerned, considering the natural variability of the environment. GranulatShiny has been developed to help users get to grips with the proposed methods and to make it easier to report the associated information.